docs/concepts/state.mdx, before:

---
title: State
description: "Shared memory, history, and key-value state for Agents and Networks."
icon: "database"
iconType: "regular"
---

State is shared memory, or context, that is be passed between different [Agents](/concepts/agents) in a [Networks](/concepts/networks). State is used to store message history and any arbitrary data from Tools.

State is what enables agent workflows to execute in a loop and contextually make decisions. Agents continuously build upon and leverage this context to complete complex tasks.

AgentKit's State stores data in two ways:

- **History of messages** - A list of prompts, responses, and tool calls.
- **Key-value storage** - Simple storage for sharing data between agent calls and tool calls.

Both history and key-value data are used automatically by the Network to store and provide context to the next Agent.

## History

The history system maintains a chronological record of all Agent interactions in your Network.

Each interaction is stored as an `InferenceResult`. Refer to the [InferenceResult reference](/reference/state#inferenceresult) for more information.

## Key-value store

The key-value store can be used to store information between Agent calls. It's API contains all the simple methods you might expect:

```ts
// Set a value
state.kv.set("user-name", "Alice");

// Get a value
const name = state.kv.get("user-name");

// Delete a value
state.kv.delete("user-name");

// Check if a value exists
const usernameExists = network.state.kv.has("user-name");
```

Common uses for the key-value store include:

- Storing intermediate results that other Agents might need within lifecycles
- Storing user preferences or context
- Passing data between Tools and Agents

<Tip>
  The `State`'s key-value store is only retained for a single `Network`'s run.
  This means that it is only short-term memory and is not persisted across
  different Network `run()` calls.
</Tip>

State, which is required by [Networks](/concepts/networks), has many uses across various AgentKit components.

Refer to the [State key-value store reference](/reference/state#reading-and-modifying-state-state-kv) for more information.

## Using state in tools

State can be leveraged in a Tool's `handler` method to get or set data. Here is an example of a Tool that uses `kv` as a temporary store for files and their contents that are being written by the Agent.

```ts
const writeFiles = createTool({
  name: "write_files",
  description: "Write code with the given filenames",
  parameters: z.object({
    files: z.array(
      z.object({
        filename: z.string(),
        content: z.string(),
      })
    ),
  }),
  handler: (output, { network }) => {
    // files is the output from the model's response in the format above.
    // Here, we store OpenAI's generated files in the response.
    const files = network?.state.kv.get("files") || {};
    for (const file of output.files) {
      files[file.filename] = file.content;
    }
    network?.state.kv.set("files", files);
  },
});
```

{// TODO
// - Using state in routers (why, how, example)
// - Using state in agent prompts (why, how, example)
}

Commit message:

Document typed state, re-add KV for backcompat

docs/concepts/state.mdx, after:

---
title: State
description: "Shared memory, history, and key-value state for Agents and Networks."
icon: "database"
iconType: "regular"
---

State is shared memory, or context, that is be passed between different [Agents](/concepts/agents) in a [Networks](/concepts/networks). State is used to store message history and build up structured data from tools.

State enables agent workflows to execute in a loop and contextually make decisions. Agents continuously build upon and leverage this context to complete complex tasks.

AgentKit's State stores data in two ways:

- **History of messages** - A list of prompts, responses, and tool calls.
- **Fully typed state data** - Typed state that allows you to build up structured data from agent calls, then implement [deterministic state-based routing](/advanced-patterns/routing) to easily model complex agent workflows.

Both history and state data are used automatically by the Network to store and provide context to the next Agent.

## History

The history system maintains a chronological record of all Agent interactions in your Network.

Each interaction is stored as an `InferenceResult`. Refer to the [InferenceResult reference](/reference/state#inferenceresult) for more information.

## Key-value store

The key-value store can be used to store information between Agent calls. It's API contains all the simple methods you might expect:

```ts
// Set a value
state.kv.set("user-name", "Alice");

// Get a value
const name = state.kv.get("user-name");

// Delete a value
state.kv.delete("user-name");

// Check if a value exists
const usernameExists = network.state.kv.has("user-name");
```

Common uses for the key-value store include:

- Storing intermediate results that other Agents might need within lifecycles
- Storing user preferences or context
- Passing data between Tools and Agents

<Tip>
  The `State`'s key-value store is only retained for a single `Network`'s run.
  This means that it is only short-term memory and is not persisted across
  different Network `run()` calls.
</Tip>

State, which is required by [Networks](/concepts/networks), has many uses across various AgentKit components.

Refer to the [State key-value store reference](/reference/state#reading-and-modifying-state-state-kv) for more information.

## Using state in tools

State can be leveraged in a Tool's `handler` method to get or set data. Here is an example of a Tool that uses `kv` as a temporary store for files and their contents that are being written by the Agent.

```ts
const writeFiles = createTool({
  name: "write_files",
  description: "Write code with the given filenames",
  parameters: z.object({
    files: z.array(
      z.object({
        filename: z.string(),
        content: z.string(),
      })
    ),
  }),
  handler: (output, { network }) => {
    // files is the output from the model's response in the format above.
    // Here, we store OpenAI's generated files in the response.
    const files = network?.state.kv.get("files") || {};
    for (const file of output.files) {
      files[file.filename] = file.content;
    }
    network?.state.kv.set("files", files);
  },
});
```

{// TODO
// - Using state in routers (why, how, example)
// - Using state in agent prompts (why, how, example)
}
