docs/getting-started/installation.mdx, before:

---
title: "Installation"
description: "How to install AgentKit"
---

Install the AgentKit [npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@inngest/agent-kit) using your favorite package manager:

<CodeGroup>

```shell npm
npm install @inngest/agent-kit
```

```shell pnpm
pnpm install @inngest/agent-kit
```

```shell yarn
yarn add @inngest/agent-kit
```

</CodeGroup>

For a better local developement and production deployment experience, we recommend installing [Inngest](https://www.npmjs.com/package/inngest) alongside AgentKit:

<CodeGroup>

```shell npm
npm install inngest
```

```shell pnpm
pnpm install inngest
```

```shell yarn
yarn add inngest
```

</CodeGroup>

## Beyond installation

<CardGroup>
<Card title="Local development" href="/getting-started/local-development" icon="laptop">
Discover Inngest's Dev Server with live traces and logs.
</Card>
<Card title="Deployment to production" href="/getting-started/deployment" icon="cloud">
Add concurrency and throttling to your AgentKit network and deploy it to Inngest.
</Card>
</CardGroup>

Commit message:

updated docs for inngest as peer dependency change

docs/getting-started/installation.mdx, after:

---
title: "Installation"
description: "How to install AgentKit"
---

Install the AgentKit [npm package](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@inngest/agent-kit) and [Inngest](https://www.npmjs.com/package/inngest) using your favorite package manager:

<CodeGroup>

```shell npm
npm install @inngest/agent-kit inngest
```

```shell pnpm
pnpm install @inngest/agent-kit inngest
```

```shell yarn
yarn add @inngest/agent-kit inngest
```

</CodeGroup>

<Note>
  **Important:** Starting with AgentKit v0.8.0, `inngest` is a required peer
  dependency. You must install both packages together to ensure proper runtime
  compatibility and prevent conflicts.
</Note>

## Beyond installation

<CardGroup>
  <Card
    title="Local development"
    href="/getting-started/local-development"
    icon="laptop"
  >
    Discover Inngest's Dev Server with live traces and logs.
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Deployment to production"
    href="/getting-started/deployment"
    icon="cloud"
  >
    Add concurrency and throttling to your AgentKit network and deploy it to
    Inngest.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>
