docs/getting-started/quick-start.mdx, before:

---
title: Quick start
description: "Learn the basics of AgentKit in a few minutes."
---

In this tutorial you will create an [Agent](/concepts/agents) and run it within a [Network](/concepts/networks) with AgentKit.

<Steps>
  <Step title="Install AgentKit">
    Within an existing project, Install AgentKit from npm:

    <CodeGroup>

    ```shell npm
    npm install @inngest/agent-kit
    ```

    ```shell pnpm
    pnpm install @inngest/agent-kit
    ```

    ```shell yarn
    yarn add @inngest/agent-kit
    ```

    </CodeGroup>

    You can always find the latest release version on [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@inngest/agent-kit).

    <Accordion title="Don't have an existing project?">
      To create a new project, create a new directory then initialize using your package manager:

    <CodeGroup>

    ```shell npm
    mkdir my-agent-kit-project && npm init
    ```

    ```shell pnpm
    mkdir my-agent-kit-project && pnpm init
    ```

    ```shell yarn
    mkdir my-agent-kit-project && yarn init
    ```

    </CodeGroup>
    </Accordion>

  </Step>

  <Step title="Create an agent">
    To start, we'll create our first "[Agent](/concepts/agents)." An "Agent" is an entity that has a specific role to answer questions or perform tasks (See "tools" further below).

    To start, let's create a new file, `index.ts`. Using the `createAgent` constructor, give your agent a `name`, a `description` and it's initial `system` prompt. The `name` and `description` properties are used to allow the LLM to determine which Agent to call.

    You'll also specify which `model` you want the agent to use. Here we'll use Anthropic's [Claude 3.5 Haiku](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/about-claude/models) model. ([Model reference](/concepts/models))

    Your agent can be whatever you want, but in this quick start, we'll create a Postgres database administrator agent:

    ```ts index.ts
    import { createAgent, anthropic } from '@inngest/agent-kit';

    const dbaAgent = createAgent({
      name: 'Database administrator',
      description: 'Provides expert support for managing PostgreSQL databases',
      system:
        'You are a PostgreSQL expert database administrator. ' +
        'You only provide answers to questions linked to Postgres database schema, indexes, extensions.',
      model: anthropic({
        model: 'claude-3-5-haiku-latest',
        defaultParameters: {
          max_tokens: 1000,
        },
      }),
    });
    ```

    We'll also have to set any provider API keys as environment variables.

    ```shell terminal
    export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-api03-XXXXXX....
    ```

  </Step>
  <Step title="Run the server">

    Next, we'll create an http server in order to run our agent. In the same file as our _Agent_ definition:

    ```ts index.ts
    import { createAgent, anthropic } from '@inngest/agent-kit';
    import { createServer } from '@inngest/agent-kit/server';
    // ...
    const server = createServer({
      agents: [dbaAgent],
    });
    server.listen(3000, () => console.log('Agent kit running!'));
    ```

    Now we can run our AgentKit server using [`npx`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/commands/npx) and [`tsx`](https://tsx.is/) (for easy TypeScript execution).

    ```shell terminal
    npx tsx ./index.ts
    ```

  </Step>

  <Step title="Test our agent">
    To test our agent, we'll use the [Inngest dev server](https://www.inngest.com/docs/local-development) to allow us to visually debug our agents. Using `npx`, we'll start the server and point it to our AgentKit server:

    ```shell terminal
    npx inngest-cli@latest dev -u http://localhost:3000/api/inngest
    ```

    Now, open the dev server and select the function's tab (`http://localhost:8288/functions`) and click the "Invoke" button:

    ![Inngest Dev Server function list](/graphics/quick-start/dev-server-agent.png)

    In the Invoke function modal, specify the input prompt for your agent and click the "Invoke function" button.

    ![Inngest Dev Server invoke function modal](/graphics/quick-start/dev-server-invoke.png)

    ```json Invoke payload
    {
      "data": {
        "input": "How do I aggregate an integer column across a date column by week?"
      }
    }
    ```

    You'll be redirected to watch the agent run and view the output:

    ![Inngest Dev Server agent run](/graphics/quick-start/dev-server-agent-run.png)

  </Step>

<Step title="Creating a Network">
  A key benefit of AgentKit is the ability to create a system of agents called a
  "[Network](/concepts/networks)." "Networks" are used to create stateful
  workflows with one or more Agents that can call tools.

  We'll start by creating a second _"Database Security"_ Agent:

  ```ts index.ts
  import { createAgent, anthropic } from '@inngest/agent-kit';
  
  // ...
 
  const securityAgent = createAgent({
    name: 'Database Security Expert',
    description: 'Provides expert guidance on PostgreSQL security, access control, audit logging, and compliance best practices',
    system: 'You are a PostgreSQL security expert. ' +
      'You only provide answers to questions linked to PostgreSQL security topics such as encryption, access control, audit logging, and compliance best practices.',
    model: anthropic({
      model: 'claude-3-5-haiku-latest',
      defaultParameters: {
        max_tokens: 1000,
      },
    }),
  });
  ```

We can now create a network combining our _"Database Administrator"_ and _"Database Security"_ Agents, which enables us to answer more complex questions.

Create a network using the `createNetwork` constructor. Define a `name` include our agent from the previous step in the `agents` array. You must also configure the `defaultModel` for which the "[router](/concepts/routers)" will use to determine which agent to call.

```ts index.ts
import { /*...*/ createNetwork } from "@inngest/agent-kit";
// ...
const devOpsNetwork = createNetwork({
  name: "DevOps team",
  agents: [dbaAgent, securityAgent],
  defaultModel: anthropic({
    model: "claude-3-5-haiku-latest",
    defaultParameters: {
      max_tokens: 1000,
    },
  }),
});
const server = createServer({
  agents: [dbaAgent, securityAgent],
  networks: [devOpsNetwork],
});
```

  </Step>

  <Step title="Test our network">
    We'll use the same approach to test our network as we did above to test our network, with the Inngest dev server's.

    <Tip>
      Networks are powerful as they include "[routing agents](/concepts/routers)" that can coordinate between a system of multiple agents, enabling networks to complete more complex tasks.
    </Tip>

    Our network enables us to answer more complex or multiple questions such as:

    ```json Invoke payload
    {
      "data": {
        "input": "I am building a Finance application. Help me answer the following 2 questions: \n - How can I scale my application to millions of request per second? \n - How should I design my schema to ensure the safety of each organization's data?"
      }
    }
    ```

    The network will now run through the Agents to answer the questions:

    ![Inngest Dev Server agent run](/graphics/quick-start/dev-server-network-run.png)

    And provide the final answer in two parts:

    ```txt
    As a PostgreSQL expert focused on database schema, indexes, and extensions, I'll provide database-specific recommendations:
    ...

    Thank you for waiting. As a PostgreSQL security expert, I'll focus specifically on the security aspects of your schema design and data isolation:
    ...

    ```

  </Step>

</Steps>

{// TODO:
// - Create an agent
// - Set env vars
// - Run the agent (hello world - it worked!)
// - Create a network w/ the agent
// - Run it e2e -
// - Add 2nd agent to Network
// - Run it
// - Next steps (learn about tools, agents, state, custom routing)
// todo should we reference tools or use a separate guide?
}

## Next steps

Congratulations! You've now created your first AgentKit Agents and Network.

In this guide you've learned that:

- **Agents** are the building blocks of AgentKit. They are used to call a single model to answer specific questions or perform tasks.
- **Networks** are a group of agents that can work together to achieve more complex goals.

The following guides will help you to build more advanced AI Agents:

<CardGroup>
  <Card title="Adding Tools to Agents" href="/concepts/tools" icon="gear">
    Let your Agent access fresh data with tools
  </Card>
  <Card title="Add a custom router to your Network" href="/concepts/routers" icon="route">
    Learn how to dynamically route between agents.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>

Commit message:

docs(quickstart): improve the quickstart end result (#137)
* docs(quickstart): improve the quickstart end result

* Update examples/quick-start/index.ts

docs/getting-started/quick-start.mdx, after:

---
title: Quick start
description: "Learn the basics of AgentKit in a few minutes."
---

In this tutorial you will create an [Agent](/concepts/agents) and run it within a [Network](/concepts/networks) with AgentKit.

<Steps>
  <Step title="Install AgentKit">
    Within an existing project, Install AgentKit from npm:

    <CodeGroup>

    ```shell npm
    npm install @inngest/agent-kit
    ```

    ```shell pnpm
    pnpm install @inngest/agent-kit
    ```

    ```shell yarn
    yarn add @inngest/agent-kit
    ```

    </CodeGroup>

    You can always find the latest release version on [npm](https://www.npmjs.com/package/@inngest/agent-kit).

    <Accordion title="Don't have an existing project?">
      To create a new project, create a new directory then initialize using your package manager:

    <CodeGroup>

    ```shell npm
    mkdir my-agent-kit-project && npm init
    ```

    ```shell pnpm
    mkdir my-agent-kit-project && pnpm init
    ```

    ```shell yarn
    mkdir my-agent-kit-project && yarn init
    ```

    </CodeGroup>
    </Accordion>

  </Step>

  <Step title="Create an agent">
    To start, we'll create our first "[Agent](/concepts/agents)." An "Agent" is an entity that has a specific role to answer questions or perform tasks (See "tools" further below).

    To start, let's create a new file, `index.ts`. Using the `createAgent` constructor, give your agent a `name`, a `description` and it's initial `system` prompt. The `name` and `description` properties are used to allow the LLM to determine which Agent to call.

    You'll also specify which `model` you want the agent to use. Here we'll use Anthropic's [Claude 3.5 Haiku](https://docs.anthropic.com/en/docs/about-claude/models) model. ([Model reference](/concepts/models))

    Your agent can be whatever you want, but in this quick start, we'll create a Postgres database administrator agent:

    ```ts index.ts
    import { createAgent, anthropic } from '@inngest/agent-kit';

    const dbaAgent = createAgent({
      name: 'Database administrator',
      description: 'Provides expert support for managing PostgreSQL databases',
      system:
        'You are a PostgreSQL expert database administrator. ' +
        'You only provide answers to questions linked to Postgres database schema, indexes, extensions.',
      model: anthropic({
        model: 'claude-3-5-haiku-latest',
        defaultParameters: {
          max_tokens: 1000,
        },
      }),
    });
    ```

    We'll also have to set any provider API keys as environment variables.

    ```shell terminal
    export ANTHROPIC_API_KEY=sk-ant-api03-XXXXXX....
    ```

  </Step>
  <Step title="Run the server">

    Next, we'll create an http server in order to run our agent. In the same file as our _Agent_ definition:

    ```ts index.ts
    import { createAgent, anthropic } from '@inngest/agent-kit';
    import { createServer } from '@inngest/agent-kit/server';
    // ...
    const server = createServer({
      agents: [dbaAgent],
    });
    server.listen(3000, () => console.log('Agent kit running!'));
    ```

    Now we can run our AgentKit server using [`npx`](https://docs.npmjs.com/cli/v8/commands/npx) and [`tsx`](https://tsx.is/) (for easy TypeScript execution).

    ```shell terminal
    npx tsx ./index.ts
    ```

  </Step>

  <Step title="Test our agent">
    To test our agent, we'll use the [Inngest dev server](https://www.inngest.com/docs/local-development) to allow us to visually debug our agents. Using `npx`, we'll start the server and point it to our AgentKit server:

    ```shell terminal
    npx inngest-cli@latest dev -u http://localhost:3000/api/inngest
    ```

    Now, open the dev server and select the function's tab (`http://localhost:8288/functions`) and click the "Invoke" button:

    ![Inngest Dev Server function list](/graphics/quick-start/dev-server-agent.png)

    In the Invoke function modal, specify the input prompt for your agent and click the "Invoke function" button.

    ![Inngest Dev Server invoke function modal](/graphics/quick-start/dev-server-invoke.png)

    ```json Invoke payload
    {
      "data": {
        "input": "How do I aggregate an integer column across a date column by week?"
      }
    }
    ```

    You'll be redirected to watch the agent run and view the output:

    ![Inngest Dev Server agent run](/graphics/quick-start/dev-server-agent-run.png)

  </Step>

<Step title="Creating a Network">
  A key benefit of AgentKit is the ability to create a system of agents called a
  "[Network](/concepts/networks)." "Networks" are used to create stateful
  workflows with one or more Agents that can call tools.


  We'll start by creating a second _"Database Security"_ Agent:

  ```ts index.ts
  import { createAgent, anthropic } from '@inngest/agent-kit';
  
  // ...
 
  const securityAgent = createAgent({
    name: 'Database Security Expert',
    description: 'Provides expert guidance on PostgreSQL security, access control, audit logging, and compliance best practices',
    system: 'You are a PostgreSQL security expert. ' +
      'You only provide answers to questions linked to PostgreSQL security topics such as encryption, access control, audit logging, and compliance best practices.',
    model: anthropic({
      model: 'claude-3-5-haiku-latest',
      defaultParameters: {
        max_tokens: 1000,
      },
    }),
  });
  ```

We can now create a network combining our _"Database Administrator"_ and _"Database Security"_ Agents, which enables us to answer more complex questions.

Create a network using the `createNetwork` constructor. Define a `name` include our agent from the previous step in the `agents` array. You must also configure the `defaultModel` for which the "[router](/concepts/routers)" will use to determine which agent to call.

```ts index.ts
import { /*...*/ createNetwork } from "@inngest/agent-kit";
// ...
const devOpsNetwork = createNetwork({
  name: "DevOps team",
  agents: [dbaAgent, securityAgent],
  defaultModel: anthropic({
    model: "claude-3-5-haiku-latest",
    defaultParameters: {
      max_tokens: 1000,
    },
  }),
});
const server = createServer({
  agents: [dbaAgent, securityAgent],
  networks: [devOpsNetwork],
});
```

  </Step>

  <Step title="Test our network">
    We'll use the same approach to test our network as we did above to test our network, with the Inngest dev server's.

    <Tip>
      Networks are powerful as they include "[routing agents](/concepts/routers)" that can coordinate between a system of multiple agents, enabling networks to complete more complex tasks.
    </Tip>

    Our network enables us to answer more complex or multiple questions such as:

    ```json Invoke payload
    {
      "data": {
        "input": "I am building a Finance application. Help me answer the following 2 questions: \n - How can I scale my application to millions of request per second? \n - How should I design my schema to ensure the safety of each organization's data?"
      }
    }
    ```

    The network will now run through the Agents to answer the questions:

    ![Inngest Dev Server agent run](/graphics/quick-start/dev-server-network-run.png)


    You can inspect the result of each Agent in the top output of the network run:

    ![Inngest Dev Server agent run](/graphics/quick-start/dev-server-network-run-result.png)

  </Step>

</Steps>

{// TODO:
// - Create an agent
// - Set env vars
// - Run the agent (hello world - it worked!)
// - Create a network w/ the agent
// - Run it e2e -
// - Add 2nd agent to Network
// - Run it
// - Next steps (learn about tools, agents, state, custom routing)
// todo should we reference tools or use a separate guide?
}

## Next steps

Congratulations! You've now created your first AgentKit Agents and Network.

In this guide you've learned that:

- **Agents** are the building blocks of AgentKit. They are used to call a single model to answer specific questions or perform tasks.
- **Networks** are a group of agents that can work together to achieve more complex goals.

The following guides will help you to build more advanced AI Agents:

<CardGroup>
  <Card title="Adding Tools to Agents" href="/concepts/tools" icon="gear">
    Let your Agent access fresh data with tools
  </Card>
  <Card
    title="Add a custom router to your Network"
    href="/concepts/routers"
    icon="route"
  >
    Learn how to dynamically route between agents.
  </Card>
</CardGroup>
