docs/overview.mdx, before:

---
title: AgentKit
description: "A TypeScript library to create and orchestrate AI Agents."
sidebarTitle: Overview
mode: "wide"
---

AgentKit is a framework to build AI Agents, from single model inference calls to multi-agent systems that use tools. Designed with orchestration at it's core, AgentKit enables developers to build, test, and deploy reliable AI applications at scale.

With AgentKit, you get:

✨ **Simple and composable primitives** to build from simple Support Agents to semi-autonomous Coding Agents.

🧠 **Support for OpenAI, Anthropic, Gemini** and all OpenAI API compatible models.

🛠️ **Powerful tools building API** with support for [Claude MCP](/advanced-patterns/mcp-tools).

🔌 **Integrates** with your favorite AI libraries and products (ex: [E2B](/integrations/e2b), [Browserbase](/integrations/browserbase), [Neon](/integrations/neon)).

📊 **Local Live traces and input/output logs** when combined with the Inngest Dev Server.

<br />

New to AI Agents? Follow our [guided tour](/guided-tour/overview) to learn how to build your first AgentKit application.

All the above sounds familiar? Check our **[Getting started section](#getting-started)** or the **["How AgentKit works" section](#how-agentkit-works)** to learn more about AgentKit's architecture.

## Getting started

<CardGroup>

<Card title="Quick start" href="/getting-started/quick-start">
  Jump into the action by building your first AgentKit application.
</Card>

<Card title="Examples" href="/examples/overview">
  Looking for inspiration? Check out our examples to see how AgentKit can be
  used.
</Card>

<Card title="Concepts" href="/concepts/agents">
  Learn the core concepts of AgentKit.
</Card>

<Card title="SDK Reference" href="/reference/introduction">
  Ready to dive into the code? Browse the SDK reference to learn more about
  AgentKit's primitives.
</Card>

</CardGroup>

## How AgentKit works

<div className="flex gap-4">

<div className="flex-1 py-8 mr-5">
  AgentKit enables developers to compose simple single-agent systems or entire
  _systems of agents_ in which multiple agents can work together.
  **[Agents](/concepts/agents)** are combined into
  **[Networks](concepts/networks)** which include a
  **[Router](concepts/routers)** to determine which Agent should be called.
  Their system's memory is recorded as Network **[State](concepts/state)** which
  can be used by the Router, Agents or **[Tools](concepts/tools)** to
  collaborate on tasks.
</div>

<div className="flex-1">

<Frame>
  ![A diagram with the components of AgentKit in an AgentKit
  Network](/graphics/system.svg)
</Frame>

</div>

</div>

The entire system is orchestration-aware and allows for customization at runtime for dynamic, powerful AI workflows and agentic systems. Here is what a simple Network looks like in code:

```ts
import {
  createNetwork,
  createAgent,
  openai,
  anthropic,
} from "@inngest/agent-kit";
import { searchWebTool } from "./tools";

const navigator = createAgent({
  name: "Navigator",
  system: "You are a navigator...",
  tools: [searchWebTool],
});

const classifier = createAgent({
  name: "Classifier",
  system: "You are a classifier...",
  model: openai("gpt-3.5-turbo"),
});

const summarizer = createAgent({
  model: anthropic("claude-3-5-haiku-latest"),
  name: "Summarizer",
  system: "You are a summarizer...",
});

const network = createNetwork({
  agents: [navigator, classifier, summarizer],
  defaultModel: openai({ model: "gpt-4o" }),
});

const input = `Classify then summarize the latest 10 blog posts
  on https://www.deeplearning.ai/blog/`;

const result = await network.run(input, ({ network }) => {
  // Use an agent which figures out the specific agent to call
  // based off of the network's history.
  return defaultRoutingAgent;
});
```

Commit message:

MCP examples + docs (#107)
* fix(mcp): emit valid tool name from MCP tools

Fixes:
```
{"type":"error","error":{"type":"invalid_request_error","message":"tools.0.custom.name: String should match pattern '^[a-zA-Z0-9_-]{1,64}$'"}}
```

* Create soft-lamps-sin.md

* docs(examples): Neon MCP Agent

* chore: remove changeset

* docs(examples): update to stable

* docs: MCP

docs/overview.mdx, after:

---
title: AgentKit
description: "A TypeScript library to create and orchestrate AI Agents."
sidebarTitle: Overview
mode: "wide"
---

AgentKit is a framework to build AI Agents, from single model inference calls to multi-agent systems that use tools. Designed with orchestration at it's core, AgentKit enables developers to build, test, and deploy reliable AI applications at scale.

With AgentKit, you get:

✨ **Simple and composable primitives** to build from simple Support Agents to semi-autonomous Coding Agents.

🧠 **Support for [OpenAI, Anthropic, Gemini](/concepts/models)** and all OpenAI API compatible models.

🛠️ **Powerful tools building API** with support for [Claude's Model Context Protocol as tools](/advanced-patterns/mcp).

🔌 **Integrates** with your favorite AI libraries and products (ex: [E2B](/integrations/e2b), [Browserbase](/integrations/browserbase), [Smithery](/integrations/smithery)).

📊 **[Local Live traces](/getting-started/local-development) and input/output logs** when combined with the Inngest Dev Server.

<br />

New to AI Agents? Follow our [Guided Tour](/guided-tour/overview) to learn how to build your first AgentKit application.

All the above sounds familiar? Check our **[Getting started section](#getting-started)** or the **["How AgentKit works" section](#how-agentkit-works)** to learn more about AgentKit's architecture.

## Getting started

<CardGroup>

<Card title="Quick start" href="/getting-started/quick-start">
  Jump into the action by building your first AgentKit application.
</Card>

<Card title="Examples" href="/examples/overview">
  Looking for inspiration? Check out our examples to see how AgentKit can be
  used.
</Card>

<Card title="Concepts" href="/concepts/agents">
  Learn the core concepts of AgentKit.
</Card>

<Card title="SDK Reference" href="/reference/introduction">
  Ready to dive into the code? Browse the SDK reference to learn more about
  AgentKit's primitives.
</Card>

</CardGroup>

## How AgentKit works

<div className="flex gap-4">

<div className="flex-1 py-8 mr-5">
  AgentKit enables developers to compose simple single-agent systems or entire
  _systems of agents_ in which multiple agents can work together.
  **[Agents](/concepts/agents)** are combined into
  **[Networks](concepts/networks)** which include a
  **[Router](concepts/routers)** to determine which Agent should be called.
  Their system's memory is recorded as Network **[State](concepts/state)** which
  can be used by the Router, Agents or **[Tools](concepts/tools)** to
  collaborate on tasks.
</div>

<div className="flex-1">

<Frame>
  ![A diagram with the components of AgentKit in an AgentKit
  Network](/graphics/system.svg)
</Frame>

</div>

</div>

The entire system is orchestration-aware and allows for customization at runtime for dynamic, powerful AI workflows and agentic systems. Here is what a simple Network looks like in code:

```ts
import {
  createNetwork,
  createAgent,
  openai,
  anthropic,
} from "@inngest/agent-kit";
import { searchWebTool } from "./tools";

const navigator = createAgent({
  name: "Navigator",
  system: "You are a navigator...",
  tools: [searchWebTool],
});

const classifier = createAgent({
  name: "Classifier",
  system: "You are a classifier...",
  model: openai("gpt-3.5-turbo"),
});

const summarizer = createAgent({
  model: anthropic("claude-3-5-haiku-latest"),
  name: "Summarizer",
  system: "You are a summarizer...",
});

const network = createNetwork({
  agents: [navigator, classifier, summarizer],
  defaultModel: openai({ model: "gpt-4o" }),
});

const input = `Classify then summarize the latest 10 blog posts
  on https://www.deeplearning.ai/blog/`;

const result = await network.run(input, ({ network }) => {
  // Use an agent which figures out the specific agent to call
  // based off of the network's history.
  return defaultRoutingAgent;
});
```
