docs/reference/model-openai.mdx, before:

---
title: OpenAI Model
description: 'Configure OpenAI as your model provider'
---

The `openai` function configures OpenAI as your model provider.

```ts
import { createAgent, openai } from '@inngest/agent-kit';

const agent = createAgent({
  name: 'Code writer',
  system: 'You are an expert TypeScript programmer.',
  model: openai('gpt-4'),
});
```

## Configuration

The `openai` function accepts a model name string or a configuration object:

```ts
const agent = createAgent({
  model: openai({
    model: 'gpt-4',
    apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY,
    baseUrl: 'https://api.openai.com/v1/',
  }),
});
```

### Options

<ParamField path="model" type="string" required>
  ID of the model to use. See the [model endpoint compatibility](https://platform.openai.com/docs/models#model-endpoint-compatibility)
  table for details on which models work with the Chat API.
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="apiKey" type="string">
  The OpenAI API key to use for authenticating your request. By default we'll
  search for and use the `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable.
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="baseUrl" type="string" default="https://api.openai.com/v1/">
  The base URL for the OpenAI API.
</ParamField>

### Available Models

- `gpt-4o`
- `chatgpt-4o-latest`
- `gpt-4o-mini`
- `gpt-4`
- `o1-preview`
- `o1-mini`
- `gpt-3.5-turbo`

Commit message:

model hyper params support (#87)
* chore: bump `@inngest/ai` for model hyper params support

* docs: model hyperparameters

* docs: models reference update

* Create new-pears-collect.md

* fix(models): `max_tokens` is required for Anthropic models

* chore: update breaking change notice

* chore: update `inngest` and `@inngest/ai` to latest

* chore(examples): fix agentkit local resolution

* chore(examples): fix agentkit local resolution (2)

docs/reference/model-openai.mdx, after:

---
title: OpenAI Model
description: "Configure OpenAI as your model provider"
---

The `openai` function configures OpenAI as your model provider.

```ts
import { createAgent, openai } from "@inngest/agent-kit";

const agent = createAgent({
  name: "Code writer",
  system: "You are an expert TypeScript programmer.",
  model: openai({ model: "gpt-4" }),
});
```

## Configuration

The `openai` function accepts a model name string or a configuration object:

```ts
const agent = createAgent({
  model: openai({
    model: "gpt-4",
    apiKey: process.env.OPENAI_API_KEY,
    baseUrl: "https://api.openai.com/v1/",
    defaultParameters: { temperature: 0.5 },
  }),
});
```

### Options

<ParamField path="model" type="string" required>
  ID of the model to use. See the [model endpoint
  compatibility](https://platform.openai.com/docs/models#model-endpoint-compatibility)
  table for details on which models work with the Chat API.
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="apiKey" type="string">
  The OpenAI API key to use for authenticating your request. By default we'll
  search for and use the `OPENAI_API_KEY` environment variable.
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="baseUrl" type="string" default="https://api.openai.com/v1/">
  The base URL for the OpenAI API.
</ParamField>

<ParamField path="defaultParameters" type="object">
  The default parameters to use for the model (ex: `temperature`, `max_tokens`,
  etc).
</ParamField>

### Available Models

```plaintext OpenAI
"gpt-4o"
"chatgpt-4o-latest"
"gpt-4o-mini"
"gpt-4"
"o1-preview"
"o1-mini"
"gpt-3.5-turbo"
```
